Tutorial: How to collect beta feedback from beta users (#7121)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/beta-feedback.md

---

> title: How to collect beta feedback from beta users

Reviewer: A bit too much beta 😅
```suggestion
title: How to collect feedback from beta users
```

date: 2023-11-07
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
tags: ['surveys', 'feature flags']
---

> The goal of a beta is to get a feature ready for a full release. This means fixing what isn’t working. Getting beta user feedback is one of the best ways to know what to fix, and PostHog makes it easy to collect.

Reviewer: " This means fixing what isn’t working"

Theres a missing bit here on also getting feedback on what is working/what is useful etc. Its not only about what isnt working

> The goal of a beta is to get a feature ready for a full release. This means fixing what isn’t working. Getting beta user feedback is one of the best ways to know what to fix, and PostHog makes it easy to collect.

Reviewer: Also "Getting beta user feedback is one of the best ways to know what to fix, and PostHog makes it easy to collect." is missing surveys I think e.g.

"Using surveys to request feedback from your beta users is one of the best ways to know what to fix, and PostHog makes it easy to collect."

Author: rewrote to better frame this way

This tutorial shows you how to combine PostHog’s [early access management](/docs/feature-flags/early-access-feature-management) and [survey](/docs/surveys) features to set up a beta and get feedback on it.

## Creating an early access feature

> To create a beta feature in PostHog, go to the [early access management](https://app.posthog.com/early_access_features) tab and click "create feature." Add a name like "new page beta," click "Save as draft," and then "Release beta." This also automatically creates a feature flag we use to control the display of the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a beta feature in PostHog, go to the [early access management tab](https://app.posthog.com/early_access_features) and click "Create feature". Add a name like "new page beta," click "Save as draft," and then "Release beta." This also automatically creates a feature flag we use to control the display of the feature.
```

> On the draft page, click "implement public opt-in" and go to the [opt-in app page](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps/574). Enable the app and set "Show features button on the page" to "Yes." This adds a modal to control early access features with no extra setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the draft page, click "Implement public opt-in" and go to the [opt-in app page](https://app.posthog.com/project/apps/574). Enable the app and set "Show features button on the page" to "Yes." This adds a modal to control early access features with no extra setup.
```

> ![Creating beta feature video](../images/tutorials/beta-feedback/beta.mp4)

Reviewer: this video moves too fast and gave me a bit of vertigo 😅

> ![Creating beta feature video](../images/tutorials/beta-feedback/beta.mp4)

Reviewer: Same as the other tutorial. These videos move+zoom too quickly. Gives me vertigo. Can we slow it down?

## Creating our app

> We use [Next.js](/docs/libraries/next-js) for our app, but any app compatible with the [JavaScript Web library](/docs/libraries/js) or snippet works. To create our app, make sure [Node is installed](https://nodejs.dev/en/learn/how-to-install-nodejs/), and then run the command below. Select **No** for TypeScript, **Yes** for `use app router`, and the defaults for every other option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [Next.js](/docs/libraries/next-js) for our app, but any app with our [JavaScript Web library](/docs/libraries/js) or snippet installed works. 

To create a Next.js app, make sure [Node is installed](https://nodejs.dev/en/learn/how-to-install-nodejs/) and then run `npx create-next-app@latest beta-page`. Select **No** for TypeScript, **Yes** for `use app router`, and the defaults for every other option.
```

export default function Beta() {
  
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Welcome to our beta page</h1>
      <p>This is very new and cool</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now, when users opt into the "new beta page" feature, a button shows on the homepage linking to the beta page.

![Opting into beta video](../images/tutorials/beta-feedback/opt-in.mp4)

## Adding a survey to the beta feature page

Lastly, we want to get feedback on our new beta page from the users in our beta. We can add this without adding code using [surveys](/docs/surveys).

To create a survey, go to the [surveys tab](https://app.posthog.com/surveys) in PostHog and click "New survey." Choose the [open feedback template](/templates/in-app-feedback-survey), fill out any details, and open the targeting section. In this section, we target the `new-beta-page` feature flag and the `/beta` URL. This prevents non-beta users from getting the survey. Once done, click save and launch.

![Creating survey video](../images/tutorials/beta-feedback/survey.mp4)

Now when users opt-in to the beta and go to `/beta`, they see a survey asking for their feedback. 

![Survey in-app](../images/tutorials/beta-feedback/survey.png)

> 

Reviewer: Not critical, but I think it needs a closing paragraph. It ended a bit abruptly IMO

Author: Wrote one

---
title: How to collect feedback from beta users
date: 2023-11-08
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
tags: ['surveys', 'feature flags']
---

The goal of a beta is to get a feature ready for release. This means improving what works well and fixing what doesn't. Using surveys to collect feedback from your users is an easy and scalable way to do this.

This tutorial shows you how to combine PostHog’s [early access management](/docs/feature-flags/early-access-feature-management) and [survey](/docs/surveys) features to set up a beta and get feedback on it.

## Creating an early access feature

> To create a beta feature in PostHog, go to the [early access management tab](https://app.posthog.com/early_access_features) and click "Create feature". Add a name like "new page beta," click "Save as draft," and then "Release beta." This also automatically creates a feature flag we use to control the display of the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a beta feature in PostHog, go to the [early access management tab](https://app.posthog.com/early_access_features) and click "Create feature". Add a name like "new page beta," click "Save as draft," and then "Release beta." This also automatically creates a [feature flag](/docs/feature-flags) we use to control the display of the feature.
```

```bash
cd beta-page
npm i posthog-js
```

Once installed, go into the `app` folder and create a `providers.js` file. In this file, initialize PostHog with your project API key and instance address which you can get in [your project settings](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings). Make sure to set the `opt_in_site_apps` property to `true` so we can use the early access opt-in app. Finally, return a `PostHogProvider` initialized with the PostHog client.

```js
// app/providers.js
'use client'
import posthog from 'posthog-js'
import { PostHogProvider } from 'posthog-js/react'

if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
  posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
    api_host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    opt_in_site_apps: true
  })
}

export function PHProvider({ children }) {
  return <PostHogProvider client={posthog}>{children}</PostHogProvider>
}
```

In `layout.js`, we import the provider and wrap your app in it. 

```js
// app/layout.js
import './globals.css'
import { PHProvider } from './providers'

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <PHProvider>
        <body>{children}</body>
      </PHProvider>
    </html>
  )
}
```

> When we run `npm run dev`, PostHog starts capturing events, the beta is ready to implement, and we can also set up surveys with no additional code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we run `npm run dev`, PostHog starts capturing events. Our beta is ready to implement, and we can also set up surveys with no additional code. 
```

## Setting up our beta feature

> With PostHog and our early access feature set up, we can set up our beta in our app. This will be a button that goes to a `/beta` page. It conditionally shows based on the `new-page-beta` feature flag for out beta. We can evaluate this flag with the `useFeatureFlagEnabled` React hook. Altogether, a basic component looks like this:

Reviewer: First line is a bit repetitive 
```suggestion
 We add a button that goes to a `/beta` page. It conditionally shows based on the `new-page-beta` feature flag for our beta. We can evaluate this flag with the `useFeatureFlagEnabled` React hook. Altogether, a basic component looks like this:
```
